Now that you've heard about some 3D data representations,
let's move on to an implementation.
The OctoMap framework is an open-source C++ library and ROS package based on Octrees,
and it can be used to generate volumetric 3D models.
OctoMap is not a 3D SLiM solution.
It is the mapping framework and requires a pose estimate.
It converts and integrates point clouds into 3D occupancy maps.
OctoMap uses a probabilistic occupancy estimation
modeled as a recursive binary Bayes filter.
It is a static state filter,
which assumes the environment doesn't change.
Efficient updates are achieved using the log odds notation.
Occupancy is represented volumetrically with modeling of free,
occupied, and unmapped areas.
Upper and lower bounds are placed on the log odds value of the occupancy estimate.
This policy limits the number of updates required to change the state of the voxel.
OctoMap supports multi-resolution map queries
where the minimum voxel size determines the resolution.
Tree pruning is also used to reduce
redundant information between discrete occupancy states.
Pruning is accomplished by defining
a threshold probability that the voxel is occupied or free.
Children that are identical to the parent in the tree can be pruned.
Memory efficient representation is accomplished using
a compression method that produces compact map files.
Coherent map volumes are locally combined,
including both mapped free areas and occupied space.